docs: bold-updates (#1988)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/bold/concepts/bold-technical-deep-dive.mdx

2. New challenge management contracts to be deployed on Ethereum.

3. [Honest validator software](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro) equipped to submit assertions and perform challenge moves on any assertions it disagrees with. The honest validator is robust enough to win against malicious entities and always ensures honest assertions are the only ones confirmed on-chain.

> ### Key terminology

Author: will do -
On the Rblock front - I will initially change it here in the BoLD docs. I will do a more thorough sweep, as my first sweep found some more extensive changes involved in that text.

### Key terminology

> - **Arbitrum rollup contracts:** The set of smart contracts on Ethereum L1 that serve as both the data availability layer for Arbitrum and for confirming the rollup's state assertions after a challenge period has passed for each assertion made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Arbitrum Rollup contracts:** The set of smart contracts on Ethereum L1 that serve as both the data availability layer for Arbitrum and for confirming the rollup's state assertions after a challenge period has passed for each assertion made.
```

> - **Assertions:** A claim posted to the Arbitrum rollup contracts on Ethereum L1 about the Arbitrum L2 execution state. Each claim consumes messages from the Arbitrum rollup inbox contract. Each assertion can be confirmed after a period of 6.4 days, and anyone can challenge it during that period. A BoLD challenge will add an additional upper bound of 6.4 days to confirm an assertion. Gaining the right to post assertions requires placing a large, one-time bond, which can get taken away in the case of losing a challenge to a competing assertion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Assertions:** A claim posted to the Arbitrum Rollup contracts on Ethereum L1 about the Arbitrum L2 execution state. Each claim consumes messages from the Arbitrum Rollup inbox contract. Each assertion can be confirmed after a period of 6.4 days, and anyone can challenge it during that period. A BoLD challenge will add an additional upper bound of 6.4 days to confirm an assertion. Gaining the right to post assertions requires placing a large, one-time bond, which can get taken away in the case of losing a challenge to a competing assertion.
```

- **Validating bridge:** The smart contract that leverages Ethereum's security and censorship-resistance to unlock bridged assets from L2 back to L1. Assets can be unlocked after an assertion (showing that those assets have been bridged from the L2) has been posted and confirmed.

> - **Fraud proofs:** Proofs that prove or disprove that an invalid state transition has taken place. These proofs are generated by challenge participants and are submitted to a chain's parent chain. For example, Arbitrum Rollups that settle onto Ethereum will have their proofs submitted to Ethereum and verified via a smart contract. In this case, these proofs allow Ethereum to be the final arbiter of disagreements over assertions in the rollup contracts, which cannot be falsified by any parties as there is only a single, correct result of executing a `WASM` instruction on a pre-state. WASM is the assembly language that is used to represent programs whose execution is being disputed. In fact, Arbitrum before and after BoLD, uses a slightly different language called WAVM when executing challenges. The difference is not important to this discussion, but for details see the page outlining the differences between [WASM and WAVM](/how-arbitrum-works/07-interactive-fraud-proofs.mdx#wasm-to-wavm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fraud proofs:** Proofs that prove or disprove that an invalid state transition has taken place. These proofs are generated by challenge participants and are submitted to a chain's parent chain. For example, Arbitrum Rollups that settle onto Ethereum will have their proofs submitted to Ethereum and verified via a smart contract. In this case, these proofs allow Ethereum to be the final arbiter of disagreements over assertions in the rollup contracts, which cannot be falsified by any parties as there is only a single, correct result of executing a `WASM` instruction on a pre-state. WASM is the assembly language that is used to represent programs whose execution is being disputed. In fact, Arbitrum, before and after BoLD, uses a slightly different language called WAVM when executing challenges. The difference is not important to this discussion, but for details, see the page outlining the differences between [WASM and WAVM](/how-arbitrum-works/07-interactive-fraud-proofs.mdx#wasm-to-wavm).
```

> 
> - **Challenge protocol:** A set of rules through which a disagreement on an assertion is resolved using Ethereum as the final arbiter. Ethereum's VM can verify one-step proofs of deterministic computation that will confirm a challenge winner in Arbitrum's rollup contracts once the challenge period has elapsed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- **Challenge protocol:** A set of rules through which a disagreement on an assertion is resolved using Ethereum as the final arbiter. Ethereum's VM can verify one-step proofs of deterministic computation that will confirm a challenge winner in Arbitrum's Rollup contracts once the challenge period has elapsed.
```

> - **Bonding of funds:** Creating an assertion in the rollup contracts requires the submitter to join the validator set by putting up a large bond in the form of `WETH`. Subsequent assertions posted by the same party do not require more bonds. Instead, the protocol always considers validators to be bonded to their latest posted assertion. The bonded funds are taken away if another competing assertion is confirmed. When an assertion is confirmed, the associated bonded funds can be withdrawn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Bonding of funds:** Creating an assertion in the Rollup contracts requires the submitter to join the validator set by putting up a large bond as `WETH`. Subsequent assertions posted by the same party do not require more bonds. Instead, the protocol always considers validators bonded to their latest posted assertion. The bonded funds are taken away if another competing assertion is confirmed. When an assertion is confirmed, the associated bonded funds can be withdrawn.
```

- **Honest validator:** An entity that knows the correct state of the Arbitrum L2 chain and who may want to participate in creating assertions, confirming assertions, and/or challenging invalid assertions if they exist. More specifically, this entity must run an Arbitrum full node in `MakeNodes`, `Defensive`, `StakeLatest`, or `ResolveNodes` mode as described in the [How to run a validator](https://docs.arbitrum.io/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/run-validator-node). Note that there must always be an active proposer (i.e., a validator who actively submits new assertions) to advance the chain and who will need to run a validator in `MakeNodes` mode.

- **Challenge period:** Window of time ([~6.4 days on Arbitrum One](https://docs.arbitrum.io/build-decentralized-apps/reference/chain-params)) over which an assertion can be challenged, after which the assertion can be confirmed. This is configurable by the DAO.

- **Edge:** Edges are a portion of a claim made by a validator about the history of the chain from some end state all the way back to some initial state. Edges are the fundamental unit in a challenge.

> - **Timers:** Each unrivaled edge (that is, an edge without another competing edge) will have a timer that _ticks up_. Time in the protocol is measured using L1 blocks and block numbers are used. An edge's timer stops ticking when a rival edge is created on-chain. We'll give a more detailed definition later, but two edges are considered to be rivals if they, agree on some prefix of a computation starting from the same state, but disagree on the remainder of that computation. Most importantly, timers are used to confirm assertions when an unrivaled edge's timer, and associated assertion, reaches the specified challenge period. See the section on [Timers and Edges](./bold-technical-deep-dive.mdx#timers) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Timers:** Each unrivaled edge (that is, an edge without another competing edge) will have a timer that _ticks up_. Time in the protocol is measured using L1 blocks, and block numbers are used. An edge's timer stops ticking when a rival edge is created on-chain. We'll give a more detailed definition later, but two edges are considered rivals if they agree on some prefix of a computation starting from the same state but disagree on the remainder of that computation. Most importantly, timers are used to confirm assertions when an unrivaled edge's timer and associated assertion reaches the specified challenge period. See the section on [Timers and Edges](./bold-technical-deep-dive.mdx#timers) for more details.
```

All actors in the protocol have a local state from which they can produce valid proofs, and all honest parties will have the same local state. Malicious entities, however, can deviate from the honest parties in attempts to confirm invalid states through the protocol. Both the protocol and the honest validator client’s job is then to allow honest parties to always win against any number of malicious participants by always claiming the absolute truth.

### On-chain components

> - **Rollup contract:** This is a smart contract living on Ethereum and allows validators to bond on state assertions about Arbitrum. This contract, known as `RollupCore.sol`, is in use by Arbitrum chains to post assertions. BoLD requires several changes to how assertions work in this contract, and it now contains a reference to another contract called a `ChallengeManager`, new in BoLD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Rollup contract:** This smart contract living on Ethereum allows validators to bond on state assertions about Arbitrum. It's known as `RollupCore.sol`, and Arbitrum chains use it to post assertions. BoLD requires several changes to how assertions work in this contract, and it now contains a reference to another contract called a `ChallengeManager`, which is new in BoLD.
```

### Off-chain components

- **Chain bindings:** Software that can interact with an Ethereum node in order to make calls and transactions to the on-chain contracts needed for participating in the protocol. We utilize go-ethereum’s abigen utilities to create Go bindings to interact with the contracts above, with a few more developer-friendly wrappers.

- **State manager backend:** Software that can retrieve L2 chain states and produce commitments to `WAVM` histories for Arbitrum based on an execution server. The validator client, described below, will have access to a state manager backend in order to make moves on challenge vertices.

- **Validator client:** A validator client is software that knows the correct history of the Arbitrum L2 chain via a state manager backend and can create assertions on L1 about them by bonding a claim. A validator is also active in ensuring honest assertions get confirmed and participating in challenging those it disagrees with. In BoLD, an honest validator will also participate in challenges other validators are a part of to support other honest participants. It interacts with the on-chain components via chain bindings described above.

> - **Challenge manager client:** Software that can manage the life cycles of challenges that an active validator participates in. Validators need to be able to participate in multiple challenges at once and manage individual challenge vertices correctly to act upon, confirm, or reject them.

Author: Per convo will move terminology into key defs section

## Assertions

A key responsibility for Arbitrum proposers is to regularly post claims about the Arbitrum chains’ state to Ethereum at certain checkpoints. These are known as assertions (and are sometimes called L2 state roots). Assertions contain information, most critically:

1. The L2 block hash being claimed

> 2. A "history commitment" combining together hashes of the chain's intermediate state after every block covered by the assertion. This is essentially a Merkle-like data structure, a tree of which the asserter only needs to provide the root when posting the assertion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A "history commitment" combining hashes of the chain's intermediate state after every block the assertion covers. This is essentially a Merkle-like data structure, a tree from which the asserter only needs to provide the root when posting the assertion.
```

3. The batch number it corresponds to for the Arbitrum chain

4. The number of messages in the Arbitrum sequencer inbox at the time the assertion is created

The following assertion to be posted on-chain must consume the specified number of inbox messages from the previous assertion. There is a required delay in L1 blocks for assertion posting. Currently, this value is set to equal 1 hour for BoLD.

Anyone can confirm assertions after a period of 6.4 days if they have not been challenged. In particular, assertions facilitate the process of withdrawing from Arbitrum back to Ethereum. Arbitrum withdrawals require specifying a blockhash, which must be confirmed as an assertion on-chain. This is why withdrawals have a delay of 6.4 days if they are not actively challenged.

> Validators must become proposers in the Rollup contract before being allowed to post assertions. For Arbitrum One and Arbitrum Nova, this involves placing a one-time bond of 3600 `WETH` that is locked in the contract until they choose to withdraw. Validators can only withdraw their bond if their latest posted assertion gets confirmed. Every assertion a validator posts will become their latest bonded assertion. Subsequent bonds are not needed to post more assertions, instead, the protocol “moves” a validator’s bonds to their latest posted assertion.

Author: will do

> Assertions form a chain in which there can be forks. For instance, a validator might disagree on the history committment of block state hashes, which an assertion contains. All <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nitro">Arbitrum Nitro</a> nodes are configured to warn users if they observe an assertion they disagree with posted on-chain. However, if a node is configured as a validator and has deposited a bond to the Rollup contract, then that validator can post the correct, rival assertion to any invalid one it just observed. The validator will also be able to initiate a challenge by posting a challenge bond and other data to the `ChallengeManager`, signaling it is disputing an assertion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assertions form a chain where there can be forks. For instance, a validator might disagree on the history commitment of block state hashes, which an assertion contains. All <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nitro">Arbitrum Nitro</a> nodes are configured to warn users if they observe an assertion they disagree with posted on-chain. However, suppose a node is configured as a validator and has deposited a bond to the Rollup contract. In that case, that validator can post the correct rival assertion to any invalid one it just observed. The validator will also be able to initiate a challenge by posting a challenge bond and other data to the `ChallengeManager`, signaling it is disputing an assertion.
```

### Opening challenges

To initiate a challenge, there must first be a fork in the assertion chain within the Arbitrum Rollup contracts. However, a challenge's actual start involves creating an edge claim and posting it to the `ChallengeManager` contract on the parent chain.

If there is a fork in the assertion chain (a "top-level" dispute), anyone can begin a challenge by creating a challenge edge. No bond is needed: each branch of the fork has a unique assertion, with an attached bond, and that assertion contains enough information to uniquely determine its challenge edge; that is, there is no "wiggle room" that an adversary can use to create multiple challenge edges from a single assertion (if this were possible, it could lead to spam attacks on the protocol).

> Anyone can open a subchallenge on an assertion without needing to be a bonder in the Rollup contract, so long as they post a subchallenge bond and an edge claiming intent to start the challenge. This subchallenge bond is much lower than the one required to become an assertion proposer. Challenges are not tied to specific addresses or parties - instead, anyone can participate.

Reviewer 2: Did we ever define "subchallenge bond"? Probably should define it in the Key Terminology section. Also i think the "Rollup contract" should reference something

Author: We will go with the challenge bond terminology for bonds; we will maintain subchallenges as a concept but limit it to the idea of "the game"

### Opening challenges

To initiate a challenge, there must first be a fork in the assertion chain within the Arbitrum Rollup contracts. However, a challenge's actual start involves creating an edge claim and posting it to the `ChallengeManager` contract on the parent chain.

If there is a fork in the assertion chain (a "top-level" dispute), anyone can begin a challenge by creating a challenge edge. No bond is needed: each branch of the fork has a unique assertion, with an attached bond, and that assertion contains enough information to uniquely determine its challenge edge; that is, there is no "wiggle room" that an adversary can use to create multiple challenge edges from a single assertion (if this were possible, it could lead to spam attacks on the protocol).

Anyone can open a subchallenge on an assertion without needing to be a bonder in the Rollup contract, so long as they post a subchallenge bond and an edge claiming intent to start the challenge. This subchallenge bond is much lower than the one required to become an assertion proposer. Challenges are not tied to specific addresses or parties - instead, anyone can participate.

> Recall that a challenge is a fundamental disagreement about an assertion posted to the Arbitrum chain. At its core, validators disagree about the blockhash at a certain block number, essentially, and the BoLD protocol allows them to interactively narrow down their disagreement via fraud proofs such that Ethereum can be the final referee and claim a winner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recall that a challenge is a fundamental disagreement about an assertion posted to the Arbitrum chain. At its core, validators essentially disagree about the blockhash at a certain block number, and the BoLD protocol allows them to interactively narrow down their disagreement via fraud proofs such that Ethereum can be the final referee and claim a winner.
```

Either of them can perform a “bisection” move on their edge. For instance, if Alice “bisects” her edge E, the bisection transaction will produce two children, E_1 and E_2. E_1 commits to 17 hashes from height A to B/2, and E_2 commits to 17 hashes from height B/2 to B.

A validator can make a bisection move on an edge as long as that edge is “rivaled”, meaning that there is another edge with a conflicting claim.

#### Subchallenges

> The number of steps of execution at which validators could disagree within a single Arbitrum block has a max of 2^42. To play a game of bisections on this amount of hashes would be unreasonable from a space requirement, as each history commitment would require 4.35Tb worth of hashes. Instead, BoLD plays the bisection game over different levels of granularity of this space of 2^42 hashes that we call "subchallenges" that can be viewed as recursive execution of the dispute resolution process.

Reviewer 2: We mention subchallenges here with double quotation marks as if introducing the term for the first time but that's not true. Would be a good idea to define subchallenges earlier on in the key terminology section

> As a reminder, the bisection game is an iterative and interactive process. The first subchallenge is at the block level and is where validators disagree over Arbitrum blocks between two assertions. The disagreeing validators create “edges” containing history commitments to all the blocks in between those two assertions, which is a max of 2^26 L2 blocks, and commence the bisection game. As they progressively narrow down to a single block of disagreement, the validators then begin the next phase of the challenge process by opening a subchallenge over up to 2^19 **BigSteps**, which are each 2^23 steps of WASM execution. Once they reach a single disagreement at the BigStep level, they open a final subchallenge over a maximum of 2^23 SmallSteps, which are each a single step of WASM execution. The bisection game is the same at each subchallenge level, and opening a subchallenge requires placing another “challenge bond”. The magnitudes of challenge bonds are different at each subchallenge level.

Reviewer 2: Might be a good idea to make sure all mentions of WASM are stylized `WASM`
```suggestion
As a reminder, the bisection game is an iterative and interactive process. The first subchallenge is at the block level and is where validators disagree over Arbitrum blocks between two assertions. The disagreeing validators create “edges” containing history commitments to all the blocks in between those two assertions, which is a max of 2^26 L2 blocks, and commence the bisection game. As they progressively narrow down to a single block of disagreement, the validators then begin the next phase of the challenge process by opening a subchallenge over up to 2^19 **BigSteps**, which are each 2^23 steps of WASM execution. Once they reach a single disagreement at the BigStep level, they open a final subchallenge over a maximum of 2^23 SmallSteps, which are each a single step of `WASM` execution. The bisection game is the same at each subchallenge level, and opening a subchallenge requires placing another “challenge bond”. The magnitudes of challenge bonds are different at each subchallenge level.
```

#### One step proof

> Once validators reach a single step of disagreement after reaching the deepest subchallenge level, they need to provide something called a **one step proof**, or `OSP` for short. This is a proof of `WASM` execution showing that executing the Arbitrum state transition function at machine hash A leads to machine hash B. The parent chain, like Ethereum is for Arbitrum One, then actually runs a `WASM` emulator using a smart contract for this step and will declare a winner. An evil party cannot forge a one-step proof, and unless there is a critical bug in the smart contract, the honest party will always win. At this point, the honest party’s one-step proven edge will be confirmed, and the evil party has no more moves to make. Next, the honest party’s “branch” of edges all the way from the top to the one-step proven edge will have an ever-increasing timer until the top edge can be confirmed by time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once validators reach a single step of disagreement at the deepest subchallenge level, they need to provide something called a **one step proof**, or `OSP` for short. This is a proof of `WASM` execution showing that executing the Arbitrum state transition function at machine hash A leads to machine hash B. The parent chain, like Ethereum is for Arbitrum One, then actually runs a `WASM` emulator using a smart contract for this step and will declare a winner. An evil party cannot forge a one-step proof, and unless there is a critical bug in the smart contract, the honest party will always win. At this point, the honest party’s one-step proven edge will be confirmed, and the evil party has no more moves to make. Next, the honest party’s “branch” of edges all the way from the top to the one-step proven edge will have an ever-increasing timer until the top edge is confirmed by time.
```

### Bonding in challenges

> To create a challenge, there must be a fork in the Arbitrum assertion chain smart contract. A validator that wishes to initiate a challenge must then post an “edge” claiming a history of block hashes from the previous assertion to the claimed assertion they believe is correct. To do so, they need to put up some value called a "challenge bond". Note that to open a new assertion-level challenge, no challenge bond needs to be posted. This is because top-level assertions already contain enough information to uniquely determine their corresponding challenge edge (which contain a hash of this history), and have already been bonded on.

Reviewer 2: Hm earlier we use the term "subchallenge bond" and here we use "challenge bond" - which is it? To my understanding, they are one and the same and so we should align on one and put it into the Key Terminology section
